Term entry java replacefirst (#1738)
Codecademy/docs: content/java/concepts/strings/terms/replaceFirst/replaceFirst.md

---
Title: '.replaceFirst()'
Description: 'Replaces the first matching substring in a string with the specified replacement string.'
Subjects:
  - 'Code Foundations'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Strings'
  - 'Methods'
  - 'Characters'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-java'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

The **`.replaceFirst()`** method replaces the first matching substring in a string with the specified replacement string.

## Syntax

> ```pseudo

Reviewer: Since this is a Java entry, this code block should be Java.

Author: The syntax is always in a pseudo code block in every other entry. Are you sure that this one should be in Java?

Reviewer: In that case, I guess we can keep it as pseudo.

string.replaceFirst(String substring, String replacement);
```

The `.replaceFirst()` method takes two parameters:

- `substring`, a string or a [regular expression](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/general/regular-expressions) to specify which substring needs to be replaced.

> > **Note:** In regular expressions, some characters, for example, the asterisk (`*`) or the question mark (`?`), have special meanings. To match a substring with these special characters, they must be "escaped" with the backslash (`\`) character, or the 'Matcher.quoteReplacement(String)` method can be used to get the string literal of any string passed as a parameter.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

> **Note:** In regular expressions, some characters, for example, the asterisk (`*`) or the question mark (`?`), have special meanings. To match a substring with these special characters, they must be "escaped" with the backslash (`\`) character, or the 'Matcher.quoteReplacement(String)` method can be used to get the string literal of any string passed as a parameter.
```

>   > **Note:** In regular expressions, some characters, for example, the asterisk (`*`) or the question mark (`?`), have special meanings. To match a substring with these special characters, they must be "escaped" with the backslash (`\`) character, or the 'Matcher.quoteReplacement(String)` method can be used to get the string literal of any string passed as a parameter.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> **Note:** In regular expressions, some characters, for example, the asterisk (`*`) or the question mark (`?`), have special meanings. To match a substring with these special characters, they must be "escaped" with the backslash (`\`) character, or the 'Matcher.quoteReplacement(String)` method can be used to get the string literal of any string passed as a parameter.
```

> - `replacement`, a string to specify the substring to be substituted.

Reviewer 2: Can we move this above the note?

> - `replacement`, a string to specify the substring to be substituted for.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `replacement`, a string to specify the substring to be substituted.
```

The `.replaceFirst()` method returns a string with the replaced substring.

> The `.replaceFirst()` method only replaces the first matching occurrence of the `substring`, while [`.replaceAll()`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/java/strings/replaceAll) replaces all matching occurrences of the `substring`.

Reviewer 2: Can we combine these

Author: I combined them into one sentence.

> The `.replaceFirst()` method only replaces the first matching occurrence of the `substring`, while the [`.replaceAll()`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/java/strings/replaceAll) replaces all matching occurrences of the `substring`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `.replaceFirst()` method only replaces the first matching occurrence of the `substring`, while [`.replaceAll()`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/java/strings/replaceAll) replaces all matching occurrences of the `substring`.
```

## Example

> The example below replaces the first occurrence of the substring `pizza` in the `myString` string with the replacement substring `donut`. Then, it uses the `System.out.println()` method to display both the original and replaced strings on the console:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example below replaces the first occurrence of the substring `pizza` in `myString` with the string `donut` and prints the results.
```

```java
public class Main {
  public static void main(String[] args) {

>     String myString = "I love pizza. I eat pizza every day. I make my own pizza. ";

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    String myString = "I love pizza. I eat pizza every day. I make my own pizza.";
```
